# School1
School1 is an app to help students being more organized and saving time due to in-class syncing, helping them to spend less time searching for stuff, noting and keeping appointments and tasks, to have an overall more relaxed everyday life.
## Getting Started
School1 is intended to run on the most common platforms. If you like to add one, the specificaton is open, so just start developing for it. But probably you want to see or edit code for an existing platform: To do this, visit youf you want to see so head on to your desired one.
Also, it aims to provide an excellent, platform specific UI to be intuitive and easy to use, yet powerful, efficient in both terms of performance and usage, open to innovation and completely free.
## Branches
There is one branch for each development part (i.e. backend, Android, master for releases and general stuff) within this project. If you have any suggestions regarding this approach, please let me know in the comments, or open an issue.
## Backend
School1 will be powered by an WebSocket backend, probably written in Rust with the [WS-RS library](https://github.com/housleyjk/ws-rs) and a DBMS (either a real database server, or the lightweight [SQLite](https://sqlite.org/whentouse.html)). 
For those, who are a bit skeptic about the WebSocket choice: It's fast and full duplex, so you don't need any handshakes (HTTP and TLS) for each request, and the event-based publish-subscribe pattern is easily implemented without extern services. Therefore, it saves energy and performance on both client and server, whereas in the latter case, it should be noted, that open connections just consume a small amount of RAM while idle, with no CPU usage at all, as long as there is no network IO.
## Platforms
- [Android native](#android)
- [Cordova Ionic](#ionic) for iOS and Windows Phone
- [Electron](#electron) for Desktop
- [Web](#web) probably via either the files generated by Electron or Cordova
### <a name="android"></a>Android
For building or testing the Android application, you'll need the current [Android Studio 3.0 Preview](https://developer.android.com/studio/preview/index.html) (We need it for Instant App support, hopefully it will go into beta soon), the Android Support Libraries, Instant Run SDK, and everything preinstalled.
It is currently the only platform implemented, and will be ported in steps from Bitbucket to Github (not exposing our... ahem... terrific proprietary protocol).
#### Testing
There are currently no tests to run. But feel free to create some!
#### Miscellaneous 
Exact design choices weren't made yet, also the WebSocket Library is not yet decided.
### <a name="ionic"></a>Cordova Ionic
[Ionic](https://ionicframework.com/) is a subproject of Cordova, not only providing an interface to develop cross-platform apps with web technologies, but also compiling into different styles, according to the platform, making it a great choice to deliver high-quality apps easily. As Android is already covered, this will only be used for Universal Windows Platform and iOS. If it also seems like the right platform to deliver a responsive web app, we will reuse the built static HTML and JavaScript files.
We haven't yet started to develop with Ionic, but will do in the near future.
#### Testing
As there were no resources (except researching) invested into it, no test are available. 
#### Miscellaneous
Building will probably be done with [PhoneGap](https://build.phonegap.com/), at least if there is no one in our community who has a Mac to build it with the iOS SDK (Maybe we can borrow one from a friend or something). Windows Phone/UWP will be built on a local PC.
### <a name="electron"></a>Electron
[Electron](https://electron.atom.io/) is an Open Source platform provided by Github itself an the part of School1 with the tiniest invested effort yet. It's more like a future idea than a concrete plan, but would be nice for those desktop users out there, and could either reuse things built with Ionic, or use a <a name="web"></a>responsive framework like [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) to provide a excellent experience for both Desktop users and the Web.
Please let us know what you think about this!
## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License - see [LICENSE](../master/LICENSE) for details
## Contributing
Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](../master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.
## Built with
- [Caret](https://caret.io/), an Open Source Markdown Editor
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), an extensible and Open Source code editor
- Obviously, [Github](https://github.com/)
- [Put some project managment software in here]
- A great [README template](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2) and a [markdown cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet), both Open Source on Github!